Ssl rewrite (#1345)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/administration/pages/ssl-certs-imported.adoc

[[ssl-certs-import]]
= Import SSL Certificates

//By default, {productname} uses a self-signed certificate.
//For additional security, you can import a custom certificate, signed by a third party certificate authority (CA).

This section covers how to configure SSL certificate for new {productname} installation, and how to replace existing certificates.

Before you begin, ensure you have:

* A certificate authority (CA) SSL public certificate.

>   If you are using a CA chain, all intermediate CAs must be available as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you are using a CA chain, all intermediate CAs must also be available.
```

* An SSL server private key
* An SSL server certificate

All files must be in PEM format.

The host name of the SSL server certificate must match the fully qualified host name of the machine you deploy them on.
You can set the host names in the ``X509v3 Subject Alternative Name`` section of the certificate.
You can also list multiple host names if your environment requires it.

Third-party authorities commonly use intermediate CAs to sign requested server certificates. 
In this case, all CAs in the chain are required to be available.

> If there is not extra parameter or option available to specify intermediate CAs, take care that all CAs - Root CA and intermediate CAs -
> are available in one file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is no extra parameter or option available to specify intermediate CAs, take care that all CAs (Root CA and intermediate CAs) are stored in one file.
```

== Replace Certificates

You can replace active certificates on your {productname} installation with a new certificate.
To replace the certificates, you can replace the installed CA certificate with the new CA, and then update the database.

.Procedure: Replacing Existing Certificates

> . On the {productname} Server, at the command prompt, and call the command `mgr-ssl-cert-setup` and provide the certificates as parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the {productname} Server, at the command prompt, call the command `mgr-ssl-cert-setup` and provide the certificates as parameters:
```

+
----
mgr-ssl-cert-setup --root-ca-file=<Path_to_Root_CA_Certificate> --server-cert-file=<Server_Cert_File> --server-key-file=<Server_Key_File>
----

> Intermediate CAs can either be available in the file which is specified as 'root-ca-file' or specified by extra options `--intermediate-ca-file`.
> This option can be used multiple times.
> 
> This command performs a number of tests on the provides files to test if they are valid and can be used for the requested use case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Intermediate CAs can either be available in the file which is specified with `--root-ca-file` or specified as extra options with `--intermediate-ca-file`.
The `--intermediate-ca-file` option can be specified multiple times.
This command performs a number of tests on the provided files to test if they are valid and can be used for the requested use case.
```

. Restart services to pick up the changes:
+
----
spacewalk-service restart
----

. Update the database with the new CA:
+
----
/usr/bin/rhn-ssl-dbstore --ca-cert=<Path_to_Root_CA_Certificate>
----

If you are using a proxy, you need to generate a server certificate RPM for each proxy, using their host names and cnames.

If the Root CA was changed, it needs to get deployed to all the clients connected to {productname}.

.Procedure: Deploying the Root CA on Salt Clients

. In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Systems[Overview].
. Check all your Salt Clients to add them to the system set manager.
. Navigate to menu:Systems[System Set Manager > Overview].
. In the [guimenu]``States`` field, click btn:[Apply] to apply the system states.
. In the [guimenu]``Highstate`` page, click btn:[Apply Highstate] to propagate the changes to the clients.

=== Extra handling of traditional Clients

Traditional Clients are deprecated and should be replaced with Salt Client.

> If the CA needs to be replaced when there are still traditional managed clients connected to {productname}
> some extra steps are required.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the CA needs to be replaced when there are still traditional managed clients connected to {productname} some extra steps are required.

```

Important is, that the clients do not get disconnected when the new CA is activated on the {productname} Server and Proxies.
Deploy the 'old' and the 'new' Root CA certificates to the affected clients and trust them.

> Use a configuration channel to deploy the certificte files to the clients and the remote command feature to regenerate
> the trust store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a configuration channel to deploy the certificte files to the clients and the remote command feature to regenerate the trust store.
```

> After the new certificates are activated on the {productname} Server and Proxies, test if the connections are working
> and actions can still be scheduled on the clients. If this is the case, the 'old' Root CA can be removed from clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the new certificates are activated on the {productname} Server and Proxies, test if the connections are working and actions can still be scheduled on the clients.
If this is the case, the 'old' Root CA can be removed from clients.
```
